# OPEDatabase
An organophosphate ester database enabling basic information retrieval, structural similarity checking, and MS2 query.

The operation process of the basic information query function is as follows: First, open the OPEDatabase software. Enter the name, SMILES or CAS number of the organophosphate flame retardant in the Lookup section. Click the Lookup button to query the basic information of the compound in the database, including its chemical formula and hazard properties. The structural formula of the compound will be displayed in the Structure section simultaneously. If you need to obtain extended information about the compound, such as InChI and XLogP, click the PubChem button to achieve this.
The mass spectrometry query function can only be operated on the basis of completing the basic information query, so as to obtain the mass spectrometry information of the target pollutant. This function supports the selection of two modes: LC and GC, with the LC mode selected by default. Click the MS1 button, and the system will reconstruct the primary mass spectrum through the isotope distribution algorithm, and display the corresponding mass spectrum image in the MS1 section. Click the MS2 button, and the secondary mass spectrum corresponding to the compound will be queried in the organophosphate flame retardant mass spectrometry database, and the query results will be presented in the form of an image in the MS2 section.
In the OPEDatabase software, click the “Tool-Similarity” option, and the "Similarity Check" interface will pop up. During operation, first enter the structural information of the potential organophosphate flame retardant in the blank area of the interface (in SMILES format). Then select the candidate structure type corresponding to the target substance from the three categories: “Product”, “Transformation Product” and “Unknown”. After completing the settings, click the “OK” button. The program will automatically map the input SMILES and the SMILES of the candidate structure into molecular fingerprint information respectively. Then, the Tanimoto method is used to calculate and score the structural similarity between the two. Finally, the candidates are sorted in descending order of similarity score, so as to realize the accurate sorting function of candidate structure similarity.
In the OPEDatabase software, click the “Tool-Library Searching” option, and the “Library Searching” interface will pop up. The operation process is as follows: First, enter the mass spectrometry information of the potential organophosphate flame retardant in the blank area of the interface (in SMILES format), and click “Next” to enter the next-level setting interface. In this interface, you can enter the accurate mass of the parent ion and information related to the chemical formula, and then select the mass spectrometry type (supporting LC or GC, with LC selected by default). If the LC mode is selected, it is necessary to further specify the ion mode, i.e., Positive ion mode or Negative ion mode, and select the candidate structure type from “Product”, “Transformation Product” and “Unknown” at the same time. After completing all settings, click “Finish”. The program will automatically compare the input mass spectrometry information with the mass spectrometry information of the candidates in the mass spectrometry database, calculate the similarity and score using the MS Entropy method, and then sort the candidates in descending order of score, so as to realize the similarity sorting function of unknown mass spectrometry. The final results will display the top 30 candidate pollutants with the highest scores. Double-click any compound to view its corresponding compound structure information and mass spectrometry comparison chart.
